Hello everyone
and welcome to the Filter lecture.
And in this lecture
we're going to be going over the built-in function filter.
So, let's go ahead and get started.
So, what the filter function does
is just like map and reduce
it takes in a function
and then a sequence iterable such as a list.
And it offers a really convenient way
to filter out all the elements of an iterable,
for which the function returns true.
So what I mean by that,
the function filter is gonna take in a function
and then here I have just "l",
which just stands for some sort of list.
So, function is the first argument.
Your list will be the second one.
And then the function will return a Boolean value
either true or false.
So, maybe you're checking for even numbers
or something like that.
Well you'll return true or false,
depending on if the number is even or not.
And then the function is gonna be applied
to every number in that iterable.
And only if the function returns true,
will the element of the iterable be included in the result.
So, let's go ahead
and go to the live code
and see how this works.
Alright, so we've jumped to the live code,
so let's go ahead and see an example.
First, let's make a function.
In this case, I'm going to use normal def function notation
and let's have it be that even check
that we were talking about.
So, here if the num
returns,
actually what we can do,
Well, I'll show you two ways of doing this.
You can say if num mod two
or modula two is equal to zero,
return true.
So, let's use this version of the function
and I'll do an even check.
Let's check 34,
that's even.
Let's go ahead and check 35,
nothing comes out.
So we need to say,
we could say
else
false.
Return false.
Alright great.
So, we've created a way of filtering
the numbers based on
whether or not they're even.
So, we have a function that returns a Boolean.
You could also just return this result.
Return num mod two equals zero
and Python will treat it the same way.
But just for clarity sake,
we're gonna build out the function completely.
Alright, so let's filter out a list of numbers.
Let's go ahead and say
that our list lst is equal to,
let's just create a range,
to 10.
And we check lst.
Zero, one through nine.
Okay, great.
So, let's go ahead and filter it.
So, I wanna filter
with even check.
and return only the even numbers.
And that's exactly what it does.
So, as I mentioned before,
just like map and reduce,
filter is more commonly used
with lambda expressions just for a quick adhoc job.
So, I could say lambda
num.
where it's equal to zero.
The num modula two
and apply that to my list.
And filter works the exact same way.
So, hopefully this looks very familiar
given what we learned about map and reduce.
But basically, your first function
is any function that returns a Boolean.
And you can pass a list and it'll filter out
everything that's not true.
Let's go ahead and see one more example.
Let's say I wanted to find every number in this list
that was greater than three.
So, I could say filter,
lambda num,
given num greater than three,
pass my list
and now I have every number that's greater than three.
Okay, so hopefully that's all pretty straight forward.
Remember, filter you just put in the function name,
no parentheses,
the sequence iterable you wanna pass,
in this case we're usually doing lists.
And then it'll filter out
and return everything where the element would pass
with a true Boolean for that function.
Okay, that's actually all I have for filter.
You can go ahead and check out the jupiter notebook,
if you want some more in-depth explanation.
But that's really all there is to it.
Okay, thanks.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.